📂 Storage Layer

1️⃣ Introduction

The Storage Layer is responsible for storing processed and normalized movie ratings efficiently.It ensures fast retrieval, scalability, and reliability by using a combination of relational, NoSQL, and data lake storage solutions.

2️⃣ Why is this Layer Important?

Structured and unstructured data must be handled efficiently.

Fast query performance is required for the API and web application.

Historical data must be stored for analytics and machine learning models.

3️⃣ Components of Storage Layer

🏗 Component

🔍 Description

Relational Database (PostgreSQL/MySQL)

Stores structured movie metadata and normalized ratings.

NoSQL Database (MongoDB/Redis)

Caches frequently accessed data for fast retrieval.

Data Lake (Cloud Storage, S3, BigQuery)

Stores raw and historical data for analytics.

4️⃣ Relational Database (PostgreSQL/MySQL)

A relational database is used to store structured movie data, such as:

Movie title, genre, release year, director, etc.

Normalized ratings after processing.

User-generated metadata (e.g., comments, custom lists).

🔹 Example Table Schema

CREATE TABLE movies (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    title VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    genre VARCHAR(255),
    release_year INT,
    director VARCHAR(255)
);

CREATE TABLE ratings (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    movie_id INT REFERENCES movies(id),
    source VARCHAR(255),
    normalized_rating FLOAT
);

5️⃣ NoSQL Database (MongoDB/Redis)

A NoSQL database is used for caching and flexible data storage.

MongoDB stores semi-structured movie metadata and user interactions.

Redis caches frequently accessed ratings to improve performance.

🔹 Example MongoDB Document

{
    "movie_id": "tt1375666",
    "title": "Inception",
    "normalized_rating": 85.5,
    "genres": ["Sci-Fi", "Thriller"],
    "cached_at": "2025-01-31T12:00:00Z"
}

6️⃣ Data Lake (Cloud Storage, S3, BigQuery)

A data lake stores raw and historical data for analytics and machine learning.

Cloud Storage/S3 stores raw CSV/XML files from data ingestion.

BigQuery allows complex queries and trend analysis over time.

🔹 Example BigQuery Query

SELECT title, AVG(normalized_rating) as avg_rating
FROM `c_movie_dataset.ratings`
GROUP BY title
ORDER BY avg_rating DESC;

📌 The Storage Layer ensures efficient and scalable storage of movie ratings for fast queries and long-term analytics. 🚀

